Hi there.
This is the room.
And welcome back.
It's time now to look at how date and time are represented in Java and how they can be manipulated.
We all know that it's a very fundamental topic as we encounter dates and pretty much every application
that we use.
For instance, collecting our birthday is a pretty common activity, like in the case of Facebook or
Gmail.
It helps them in keeping track of our age and also to show us some relevant ads.
Similarly, when we post a question or a review on a particular website, then date and time is tracked
so that the end user will know when exactly that particular question or the review has been posted.
So data and time handling is extremely fundamental and that's what we are going to learn in this particular
section.
And here is the agenda.
In Java eight, there is a brand new data time API and we will learn about it in the section.
But before doing that, we will first look at the date and time classes that were there before Java
eight and let's refer to them as legacy data and Time API.
And these legacy classes are considered to be far from ideal, and that's why we have the new Data Time
API.
As this, all classes have several issues as we will soon see.
However, the legacy classes are still very widely used and it is important for us to know them really
well.
Some courses seem to be focusing only on the new Java eight data time API, but if we know only the
new classes then it can be painful and confusing if we have to deal with code that is still using the
old classes.
So to avoid such issues, we are going to learn both the APIs.
So let's go ahead now and get started with this topic.